# Food Affordability Analysis in Canada

For an introductory project, my team and I were tasked with using python to create a data analysis on any open topic of our choosing. The only requirements were that we had to retreive our own data from open sources, and create a statisitical analysis based on the data. My team and I chose to explore food affordability and its relation to food security, individual food prices, and annual income in Canada using the latest available data from Stats Canada. We used the Canada Food Guide as a basis to assess a healthy diet and analyze the potential impact to Canadians in the lower income tax bracket. We investigated population trends and how the relative growth is related to food price index increase. We evaluated food affordability trends by comparing after-tax family income and spending on food. By analyzing provincial data, we gained insights into food insecurity across Canada’s major provinces, ultimately presenting a comprehensive understanding of food security and affordability in Canada. 

Once we collected our data, we utilized python and specifically NumPy and pandas libraries to effectively wrangle our data through the jupyter notebook IDE. We took advantage of merges, reformatting, sorting, and a variety of other methods to best prep our data for analysis. We chose to learn tableau outside of class time and implemented it for our visualizations, as we felt it was the best way to represent our data. We took advantage of visualization techniques involving geocoding, bubble plots, tree maps, and a variety of line and bar charts to best represent our data. 

This project was quite a comprehensive analysis, and with it being my first major project in data I am proud of how it turned out. We gave our all to making the best representation we could of food affordability in Canada, and put countless hours into working on the project. All of the coding and datasets used for this project can be found in the folders outlined in this repository. If youre interested in learning more about food affordability in Canada, a link to the full report is available labelled "Final Report".
